Currently a mobile cloud based android application called “LEJZER” is being developed. The name comes from the inventor of Esperanto, Ludwik Lejzer Zamenhof. The overall purpose of the application is to serve as a network gateway. Its input consists of the microphone - speech data file, laryngophone based speech data file, and raw EEG and EMG files. They are uploaded to Amazon Web Services Cloud, which is optimized for Deep Learning, and thus greatly saving the users device storage and increasing speed of the overall process. The data is ‘glued’ by their time stamps - the speed of spoken words per minute. Once the ‘stamped’ files reach the cloud, the files is assessed based on similarity to the pre-existing database of word-specific associated audio, EEG and EMG signals. For example, our input might have a 70% audio match to the “FOG” audio file, 75% match to the “DOG” EMG file, and 60% match to the “DOG” EEG file. This way, even if one of the inputs are of low quality, the word in correctly matched. Each word in every language is accociated with a certain “Esperanto” file. For example, the audio, eeg and emg files of the words: pies, hund, כלב, 개, 狗, سگ, or собака, which all mean dog, are all linked to our symbolic “Hundo” file. The EEG and EMG data files are used in this way to associate spoken words with certain electric patterns, but also to incorporate things like emotion (if the user is smiling or frowning), intonation, (accessed by throat vibrations) and stressing certain words, while the speech data is used to recognize words and language specific idioms. Next, all the ‘representative’ “Esperanto” data together with the input is sent to a language model based on OpenAI GTP-2 architecture, but trained on audio, EEG and EMG data collected form the systems users. These versions will be, similarly to OpenAI’s GTP-2, trained on vast amounts of text, but more importantly, on the EEG/EMG data obtained from individual users speaking different languages, thus optimizing the translation process and data integration. (Radford et al., 2018) The end-result text file with the translated text is sent back to the user’s mobile device and either played by the devices speaker or sent to third party applications like whatsaap – thus enabling two or more users to communicate. The ‘receiver’ user will save memory in his device by using this third party software and will not be obliged to download the application. In the case of transmission to a user with the LEJZER App, 2-way communication in possible. Each speaker can use the language of his choice and set the language in which he wants to receive text files, which the receiver can either read or listen to using a text-to-speech engine, which are improving greatly every year. This way, it would be possible for many people, everyone speaking his or her own language, to communicate freely in real time – only being limited by their internet speed.
